I’m going to spoil you so hard when smiling no longer makes my face hurt

my face is a vessel of pain

I can feel the castle

I feel like my skeleton might need more bones

on Tuesday night, you go home and break a mirror

the city is my church

if you want to see the war, go to the ruins
where the plaster hasn’t quite covered the bullet holes

the myth does not survive this place

bury every dream you ever had in the anthill

and it’s not like traps laid out in the hallway that you can best with your cunning and muscles, its more like cement tied to your feet as you’re thrown into the sea and the fish are you and the monsters with cigars are you and the buoy you’re never going to reach is you and all that amounts to you is nothing because you can reach all you want but you are made of cement and you are going to drown here.

you should always be gentle with others. you do not know who has lost a child, a friend, a lover, or themselves.

scream the hell flames on me I’ve got a new god

title: tree shaped by strong winds

astrology poem

there are always men like you

There will come a point in your life when you need either god or coffee

poem of sexts/texts from Mars

personal ads of monsters

Ideas for Chapbook Poetry Project
•	I want it to be science fiction-y? with a dash of astrology and suburban angst and joy.
•	definitely need some astrology and desert imagery
•	titles:
o	Sexts from Mars
o	Texts from Mars
o	Smoke Signals from Mars
o	E-Mails from Mars
o	Wish You Were Here
o	Billboards from Mars
o	Road Signs from Mars
o	Desert Torch Songs
o	

title: a shoe for every occasion

I said I wanted to write about monsters
and he told me I already was one.

title: language of the perverse

The dirt sings
gentle songs of night,
of earthen worries
humid concerns

title: mud, mud, mud

is that fire tends towards heat only in the presence of culture, or failing that—emotional resonance.

We end up with a lot of poetry no one wants to read due to printing bargains.

stars lowball travel estimates

title: cavalcade

How much easier it is, to accept monsters
than gods.

Comets enter my outline with a burst
Of giggles


You are near enough to brush them—
the screams—from the roof, of course.

I will not name you.

not a lie but a truth misplaced in time

you are an irrational number
I have cold bones
voices drift in on winds
in the punches of raindrops
the wails of crickets
I think something’s speaking to me
I think I’m a prophet


bad feet make bad eyes
no one the wiser
snap it and see
the bones in your foot are made


what the trees know

godspeed! you beautiful machines

the anatomy of wonder and amazement

searching for a more substantial apocalypse

bleed the world of all its goodness

there is a very heartbreaking moment in every life, where you realize that, to survive, you have to systematically shut down and lock away whole vistas of yourself that no one else will understand.


the story doesn’t end with the storm—from the Weather Channel news

 
 
A

SMALL


EXPLOSION




OF



SPARKS




Aubrey DeRonde
 
 










For Ashley














 
 









"You can't study the darkness by flooding it with light."
—Edward Abbey



“At what moment can I pull away from you without falling as cinders into spaces that have no ground unless you stretch out your hand?”
—Jean Grosjean











 
 










I.	MIRAGE OF HEAT
















 
 







You unfold your hand to reach for a comet
entering your outline.








 





A hot one
Your skin
Blueberry wild colors
Gentle mouth sounds

Open up
Cream blooms

Cold coffee
Mirage
Your hair
A memory stirs:












 







Unspool until
Interstate wobbles
Wet
Your eyes

Your hands
That hungry cavern

Your jaw
Cobalt
Sky smears
Rising cool dust

 






Cities sleep in entirely new and unexpected ways—in that
they
don’t.

Gross miscalculations
of edges and lampposts,
we are only as tired as our smallest moving parts.
Night: we sketch masses along our sidewalks,
lambast our walls with ammonia-yellow fliers,
thrust along interstates to buy
neon supercars—0 to 60 in two-point-five seconds!—blindfolds
to survive the spring.


Conformity, in sleep,
evaporates.






 




This one is cold, boards up windows

at 2am, although when you walk
mannequins of white breath
rise behind you.
Silent. Accusatory.

Snow hides blue-edged hands
somewhere down beneath
jaw-locked water, which is remembering sea,
remembering sand in salty
numbness.
You peer over
	
the edge, in lamplit

	wonder

see a body vomiting
in the mirror
below.
		




 





A hot one rolls onto its back at night

to pick flowers from square

cement

teeth			until

orange bursts into sky: we are alone
on civilization’s hems, as wrens gently
construct being, leaving behind
only music.

In July, the sky veils her face
with sand.
A case of shame,
carcinogenic light.







 





In the middle city,

which does not exist

anymore

I breathe only in the clouds
at dark,
when I pick along river banks to drag
restful bodies from the blur,
where they have been dreaming
the calculus of the sea as they batter
borrowed
bodies doggedly against currents


downstream.





 

At the Palm Tree Café
on Route 66—not on any maps, which I have
spread out in front of me—remember?:

“

listen		linearity is just the world
ordering itself into the most pleasing shape—usually
a circle, but sometimes a
mother, or	an interstate. try		to hammer it into a
para-
bola and it slaps you in the face.
sing the story the way it was	anything else is uglier

						”

I keep your wise sayings in my pocketbook,
next to checks
uncashed—due to the economy.





 



Conformity, in sleep,
evaporates.

You murmur this around your cigarette—
bad habits hurry you closer towards poetic suffering.

There is no fuckin way we don’t have the same dreams
sometimes.

You can’t drive yet so I take you down to the convenience store surrounded by gravel and neon moonsplash
 where you buy another pack.
You recite nonsense differentials
through my peeling skin, as if speaking to nebula
crusting the gas pump.

Maybe you have the same dreams as stars.
I cannot say this.

You light a cigarette—you were out, before—and stop talking,
your mouth every toll bridge abandoned at dark. Even silent,
yours is a voice
	crying out in the wilderness:
			not gentle, but a concept like it.

 



Everyone is tired of mixing us up
you and I
as if the monsoons in our bellies
were leading background characters
in the sorts of songs I no longer wish
			to hear about us: soldered at the spines:
separating us is such back-breaking work
	for a semi-casual house parties, you see,
where only my darkness
	cares to be seen in you. You unfold your hand at the cheese table and wildflowers burst out your lifelines,
		though only my eyes see,
	only my eyes
cultivate.

All their confusion masks
the words slithering
between your feet or mine—listen,
I want to know if we still
share our feet with each other?
Or is this, too,
something that has changed
due to an intemperate fall of sun?
A nasty change of weather?





 



With the afterglow
of terrible storms sitting
on our belly like a sweat-flushed dog,
we escape to sun cities with new passports,
faces lifted from lithographs.
Reinvention is so easy,
working with clever mirrors and my memories.

You jump in green rivers. I am there
with you, cold
under eroded rock, thick and starry above
my head, like your hands.

I am excitable
to be a small amoeba in the countries’ veins,
invading where I shouldn’t, away
from the glow and against the current.

The Colorado dissolves
on your tongue—stoplights in the rain.
You laugh, wipe droplets from your skin,
the moment a warm crease in our cavernous
					map.





 
 








II.	A SMALL EXPLOSION OF SPARKS















 
Why say happy when you can say hap, connoting haphazard, hapless, hapax legomenon, haploid?
I want you to remember the sky, rich with fatigue, draped over the mountains. Night snaps around us in our sleeping bag.
There’s something romantic about cannibalism, isn’t there? About flying?
Remember this too, how I poured half and-half into your pupils until they were milky with the wings of every observed bird in North America, beating my pulse.
Let’s go to the mountains, then, where your shoulders stain pink. Let me rub sanitizer on our chest. It is my favorite alcoholic beverage, sucked from you until my insides are scrubbed slippery and presentable.
Modern medicine has advanced far enough in recent years so we can now get the singing organs out your throat. The sunset out your irises. Unhealthy, should be avoided—progress!
When I was a child I lived with a man who put ships in bottles. Before I went away, I put a ship in my chest because minutes and memories cannot fill empty containers without stones to hang onto. The sails unfurled in my dreams like coffee creamer. They were only being, but now when I breathe the hull rattles. On the sea we would be terrorize armadas with being. On land I must become a sedentary mapmaker or shake apart with being.
You spend days inside drawing clocks out of mountain ranges while I scout the countryside for a monster to run around the corners of Africa. My hands, along the beach’s edge, terrorize all the curves of the sea: I am a pirate of neon eyelids. Every night, you eat my eyes to drink the coastlines they hold.
Looking fundamentally changes the looked-at, since ownership is partly determined by looking. A sky is the most I will ever own, having the biggest area. Your eyes are the most I will ever own, having the most areas within them, and victory over the contested objects can only be won by consumption. I wish I could impart wisdom on you, mail you to myself to open at a later date. You 
shove your address into my throat, purple wildflowers stretching out between my teeth. Now I warble pleasantly instead of speaking. I threw you into the sky to celebrate, because very few events happen exclusively in reality.
Non-linearity is a sort of madness, you know, and you cannot have a little madness. Where are we if words can make terrible things happen? The characters know that every terrible thing begins with a reaction, I mean, in the chemical sense: two reactants, a catalyst, a terrific explosion at the end. Or maybe just a spray of sparks in your hair, spiraling down from on high. We are afterimages seen only later, in photographs of the event.
The whole year, in your memory, is the smolder of an arsonist, ash dripping from fingers and into a flat pool of gasoline. Even fire, in non-reality, is a hapless reaction. Unpredictable as: a gazelle’s dark leap against orange sky.
Instead of scorching blackly, our little experiment is only a flash in your eye, a precursor to glaucoma; that is, nerve death.
You will die, but first you will be the death of me. I hope you were proud of the cairns I built and the stories I told about us. Stories, unlike the science of reactions, have sandstone immortality. My edges have been roughened, so I’m returning to the river now.

If I mail myself to you, will you open me at a later date? I am under warm stones with memories of stories but the data has been worn and I have no more room under the mountain for you. Will you remember the trail, the hills where we drove topography to razor-edge beauty, therefore utility? You will only say certain words once in my entire life. Do hapax legomenon get lonely without me?




Here is my forwarding address.
 
 











III.	UNFOLD YOUR HAND














 







POSTCARD, November

I fear we have arrived at the ends of things. There are no wrens here anymore. Winter stalks over the mountains. Clouds cover my eyes, clotted cream suffocating a scone.

How are you making your way on dirt roads? Do you still take your coffee with salt in?

Tell me the answers. I am compiling a fact book on birds of North America and would appreciate your personal recollections. Despite the lack of wrens, a turkey landed on the roof yesterday, tarry wings big enough to fan away the clouds. Though it chose not to.






 




POSTCARD, April

Numb arms regaining consciousness are a unique sort of pain, which mimics birth and spring. Are all concepts analogous to something else? Color, at some point, must defy meaningful comparison, if only because red is like only itself. I wish I were like only myself.

Are you living someplace hot now, where your hands won’t carry jackrabbits in them any longer? Do not pretend to be me.

I hope this reaches you by next spring, which is really the same as this spring, since all dates are transferable by addition. I am like many things: a song, a reflection, a hand. The road here is like a black bracket over tan hills. The little house like a poor ship.









 






POSTCARD, July

Small horses run across the counter at night, their hooves almost hyperphonic. Out of the corner of my eye, I watch them leap at each other like sugary electricity. They disappear when I close my eyes. In a theory of motion, they do not often study the leaps of horses in the nighttime.

I do not want to pretend to be you. You are like too many things that I could not pretend to be, including mountain ranges and myself.

Linearly, wildflowers bloom at expected times every year. There are no surprises anymore, except the color of crushed petals along your cheek. I have been wrestling with you and gotten nowhere. Memorizing events is a sort of unspooling.





 



POSTCARD, August

Today we went to photograph highway attractions. They are not so old, but many have forgotten how to be alive. People can be like that sometimes. Do not forget how to be like something, therefore exist.

In the heat, large people can often disappear in the mirages off the asphalt. Please make sure you do not vanish out there.

You have not been outside in three days. Do not forget to check on the state of the sky. Some things stop existing when you are not looking at them. Therefore, do not forget me.

 



Are we falling down,
if we have not been gentle with each other?

On my shoulder:
where the muscle curves under the weight of river rocks,
a bite mark, haphazard. It yawns
when I move too quickly, grooming itself
against flat skin.

Loneliness can easily become cannibalism,
given the right company, but matter cannot
occupy the same space twice over.
You try, still. Bits of my memories are
lodged in your jaw, in your spark of hair.

Existence depends wholly on
recognition,
so I allow this.






 



I draw my own face
in the mirror every night,
so I can recognize myself in crowds
without you.

In the absence of meaning,
which is at the cavity of all things,
there is only gentleness. Life only exists
in decay. Therefore,
only gentleness.

What recourse after that?

 





In sleep,
I am the smallest moving part.
The biggest places I have ever been
are my dreams, who stretch their arms so far
they brush against your miracles
in a river somewhere. Can you hear
my neon pulse? Songs you have sung, people
you have been.

A wave against black cliffs is not gentle.
This is a natural process.










 




Your feet are still my feet, I walk
where you follow. Gladly. With one footprint,
			can I confirm anything at all?

Green, in parks, lies
gutted, ships dead in bottles.

Some small amount of violence is necessary
owing to reality,
	which always considers the calculus
of disappearing horses
in the nighttime.

This, and all else,
is a process.
				


 







Do not think
we have arrived at the ends.
Cars and blood cells barrel along highways
at darkest hours, and this, too,
proves survival.








 



In the meantime, touch my
shoulder. Bitterness is a communicable disease.
In the reflection of artificial light singing back
to the stars,
my hair falls in my eyes. 



 
 
























Eventually,
I will shatter in a mirage of heat,
raining embers down on heads
of passersby.

 








Wish You Were Here
I.	Cryptopedia

You drive a gas-guzzler bought second-hand, used car
salesmen with scaled face—eczema or
reptilian conspiracy? Update your blog.
Real: the way the car creeps
closer every night. Watch it behind
plastic curtains. Is it hungry? Real:
the voices in
your saguaro
(overfed once but miraculously
revived through Googling
“blood rituals cactus please”
		(could have been the fertilizer, though))
telling you to
Turn Out The Lights. The saguaro voices
are environmental activists. You hope
they don’t find out about your car.
You think
a woman walked through your garden last night.
And over your pool.
Her hair was creosote, she carried a child
through the desert. She looked
like your mother—or was that
the heat?


posted 6/23/2015
the method in which the world
spins is only as complicated
as we make it


		Where mirage
ends, where memory begins,

you leave for the sand.

 
II.	Are Most People Real?

Your house
	(- burnt stucco
	- succulent garden (+ pesky saguaro)
	- broken garage door ft. aluminum sheeting
	(which is an urban legend, filed under: Best Be Safe))
was not haunted before
you lived here. Now there are kokopellis
under the patio. They put lawn chairs right side up
after monsoons. On summer nights, you wait
outside, phone ready to capture
long arms, flute notes
on the rain.


posted 7/11/2015
the usual has much need
for representation


They wave to you through
hazes of dust on the driveway, the wetness of sun
on your skin, eyes, lips—scratching. Before you retreat
inside from the wind, a fat Gila monster
hands you a thin, stained towel.
	
			Take selfie—post to blog
		Your friends are impressed, though they do not
				see your monster friend. A shame.
	He looked so charming
that day.


posted 8/06/2015
a lost thing is often useful
see: loud absence, condemned strip mall

 
III.	Field Research

Since the stars
are so intent on winking,
you practice back,
		alternating
	eyes.

You record light
patterns in a notebook: 10¢ at the strip mall
whose name you cannot remember—it was on
the corner of Alma School…
The pencil pictures make it Real.

	fig. 7

..	..
.
.      .



You think the stars or airplanes say:

	“come home”

Three winks back means: “Why?”
For now, the night stucco is cool, the saguaro
in waxy bloom, and you have to update
the blog.

draft 9/19/15
creosote woman waved today.
home: where the monsters know
your name




 
I.	Geozoography

Blinking infrared eyes—bright
against oven night. Stucco walls
remembering pueblos, remembering
binaries. Ghosts maybe
within the copper wires, which
men died
to thread into the city’s deep-cut veins.
Outside, coyotes groan
under press of smog against
gaunt shoulders. Sources say
Sasquatch has moved south. He’s hungry,
but not as hungry as searching hands
gasping out between convenience stores
wearing kicked dogs’ faces.
Hungry, edged people.
El chupacabra decides its people
are quaked enough—and flies home to find the mountains
a different shade,
the landscape a different taste
in its wide, empty mouth.

so much easier to accept monsters
than gods
 
III.	Mountain Song

The trees are always people
out of the corner of your eye, beyond.


Real said:
greet them
your leafy
burnt people


Down in downy grass over
slippery river banks,
you set your memories to match—an invasive species.
Invade together, invade
forever.

Greet them?
How, when your sunned eyes
are pressed into the pebbled trail,
overrun from monsoon floods, lack
of care,
of concern. The dirt
is thirsty for you.

	Greet them?


			You build a rock cairn in the roots
		so you will have company in the sun.
 
V.	Night of White Lines

No better spot to watch stars
open up sloe-eyed lids than the Mission, despite
the screams. From the roof, of course,
you are near enough to brush them
from your face,
your ears. Shadow voices along white walls
tangle into confluences, salty and red,
threaded through loops so distant, through people
so long dead…

These are the incoherent tapestries behind
newer, better paint, which is easier
to lean against without snagging the threads,
without carrying the loud cotton
home.

	
Memories no longer rememoried
	become dreams
no longer dreamt
	become


the myth, which does not survive this place								unbruised
			by highways and

														sweeping brushfire.
 
the scar is an it.
		it

	shifts bloody in the heat and cold,
wavering between remembering blood
			and searing itself
		away to nothing.

if its not red but
	invisible, which should be a relief
because to see pain is to make it real, so if they can’t see
		a scar there must be no injury, like a magician’s trick
	of disappearing as the bill comes around, like a prophet’s trick
					of holy water and a cure.

			when really

	pain is closing your eyes against the migraine:	it doesn’t retract the thin fingers
		tracing a thousand suns around your skull.
it doesn’t stop you from believing
your eye will pop out
			staging a daring, wet escape across the floor.

	(blindness is not an act of defiance here but of survival—uncourageous, to cower
from pain. but how necessary. how like you.)

It (the scar this time) is not the worst,
	just a face in a bar you recognize—would rather not have seen to begin with—
		but preferred to a suddenly hostile crowd. the worst
is the hot coal nestled in your jaw,
spreading upwards like stars
	
like moving.
		
you talk around it—the coal, this time—there’s
	no other way to live. you walk with a star in your mouth and it’s supposed to be beautiful,
the pain.
		it’s supposed to be beautiful.
it’s exquisite suffering, right, so “exquisite” had better be a necessary goddamn part—

instead you trample it
underfoot like grey snow and the cracks in the ice in your head
spread a little bit further up, reaching out with slender fingers to rest against your temple—
											you feel
			you are breaking apart.
you cannot shake your suspicion 
that bits of your brain are dotting the asphalt, in car tires
	as far west as the Appalachians—
does that mean you have been there? or is it like airports?
		“to be in a place, you must have your entire body present” but—
	you’ve lost some of that,
			haven’t you?

	it’s supposed to be beautiful.
		your pupils wobble under the fluorescents, and you look at It, the white line
you cannot cross, the line
	that is the only stitching keeping your body from busting apart
			into ash.
it’s beautiful
	you say
because 
	you understand why it hurts
when you see the scar—pain says
		I was here. I lived in this house
	and was thrown out (you threw it out), and when
I was thrown out, I kicked in the door and left my sweater in the drawer.

but sweaters can be ignored
	like blood, like ice reflecting starlight.
like stubbornness and like a backyard bonfire unraveling words you cannot say
because It is yours, and no one else’s.
								you imagine your face glows
							with a pain you did not fight for
						but endured. and will endure.
				

how like you.















incunabula

you asked me who to write—my heart
is always starved for letters. the answer
should have been obvious:
from the ink prints on your jaw,
the quiet pencil marks hanging
in the air between us.

write to the stars
and the moon, which is me.
write to the worm on the sidewalk
after the monsoon: fat with weather,
slimy, pink, and new.
this is also me.

meanwhile, I will write you
a bed, my heart.
a warm bed to sleep in. I’ll write you
a home for the postman to visit
and a light to leave on for me.


 
Which to Press and Which to Pick Apart

If you want to see the war, go to the ruins
cruelly trapped on linepaper.

Snap it and see
in your head:

The screams—from the roof, of course—
are slowly becoming redder with
mud, mud, mud.
Well this is it!

Lift up the rug and look

where the plaster hasn’t quite covered the bullet holes
(the beating of something heartlike
beside the point), but God
stored our spears and round shields.

I have buried names,
ink, charcoal, and blood,
hyacinths. And I’ve found more in a city
than gods
in shallow streams
after the bombs drop, after I stop blinking.

Snap it and see
in your head:

There was a mark on her chest
of giggles
to be worshipped:
bruised belief in matter,
abused linearity,
light-hung spheres.

And we cease.

Lose a head, arm, et cetera.
Observe a fox
get ripped in two.
 
Symbiotic Two-Step

Step 1
Ashes catch fire on finger hairs—
I stab you in the shinbones and take off,
off to yards of sopping stars, stretching
languid through liquid neon city arteries
spilling sluggish across sidewalks so that glowing deltas erupt thick from brick deltoids.

I eat chlorine in Kool Aid for breakfast and feel corrosion lining my
stomach, bubbling upset—am still clawing
for bleach to take away bone-deep thirst.
Your limp flint stare is better
than any chemicals and I’m going to drink
your backwards burns.

Streetlamps tremble in my hands,
recalling kerosene.
You tremble, too, recalling
raging beams.
I’d help if you were worth something but
you’re dust without me.

You slept in graveyards every night,
chewing limestone needles
into listless obelisks
to bleed your tail and imitate the discos
you can’t force yourself alive enough
to go to.
You want to be holy, Holy, or
maybe just whole,
so you gouge yourself full of pockmarks
and lie on the sidewalk, groggy—
wait for me,
lovely.

Releasing sticky brick muck
was never so unsatisfying
as when you regarded your work with
one eye,
alone
and found it didn’t shimmer, starlike.












Wait for me.





Step 2
Your kneecaps are dancefloors
and I intend to party
but first lets bash in that old ghost of you with adrenaline&cortisol
and really Spice Things Up.
Tango with me, honey,
I need your bones calcified with mine; we
can be Plague’s dead lovers tossed in holes
together; try your best to feast on me,
in famine and in war, amen!
I want to throw my head back and laugh hard as I cut your ankles open and 
pyrite clinks out, piñata style
and moaning.

This is how we fall
in love with a shadow:

We burn in with glass
dust sleeping in murky knuckles ready
to catch light.
Take hands,
wrap wrists in flare-paper,
and ignite.

 
sol salud

you wanted to name
my two brains magpie
and crow:
matching rooks
for cemetery chess
in whited spines.
but magpies
and crows?
they are not my desert birds:
weak
cool thoughtthings
never burned

you wanted sole press
of your sunpalms
into my singed soaring
hallelujah ribs.
but sky
has cool hands:
cool enough
perhaps
to chill these
			fever
bones

you wanted silent thing.
but sun speaks
harshsongs,
lye.
i evaporate
desert birds sweat off
sing
morning comes
 
Operating Table
  
	1
You keep your love in a box under the bed. Blue-lipped cherry wood, wine-stained panels cut in postmodern fashion. You keep your love like a library, empty shelves straining to touch the corners of a mouth. Smile, because your picture is the face of every encyclopedia, the name of every hero half-destroyed. Don’t say please, don’t open the box. You’ve seen all the scars drawn into your skin and the kerosene stuck between anatomy books on the mantle. Pages flutter a pulse and no matter how many matches you swallow, the mirrors in the books never break. The box never burns.

	2
Your name, the dark spot where the gun hovers and nothing gets done. Quiet dinners of pills, crushed meat, ashes and soil so deep in fingernails it begs to be sucked out. You don’t suck it out. The wrongness of setting someone else’s broken bones for a change, with an expertise gained from the shattered tibia catalogued in your bed. It pricks your hips in the nighttime, but there is no room for a gun in the box, only your hands on ruined shoulders.

	3
In the box, chapped lips, fluorescent tequila afternoons. In the box, lamps clicking off, rest-stops smeared with blank key chains, brackish coffee and too much sugar on the table, oatmeal licked off chins, dried leaves in hands. You imagine the box invisible but someone—don’t say who—swallowed it while your head was turned: with the face of a forest fire and thighs to match, tasting your own hands, legs hooked into readable hips, collarbones like broken flagpoles in enemy territory. The box, though. Consider the box, and consider its lack.

	4
All evening, you stare at the underside of your bed: a concept to secret away, a scab to pick until a pearly abscess spills pus over fingers and in that, absolution. In that, a name. You wish the box were empty, large enough only to hold a set of brackets, inked out in Helvetica on a dark shelf, on a post-it note flapping on the bridge of your nose. It’s a car without headlights, a name you’ve forgotten to say, mouth shaped like air every evening. You wish there was space here, you wish you’d remembered to turn on the gas before you went to sleep.

	5
You were emergencies. You were names written in antifreeze down stairwells and the soft press of nuclear hips. Pages in disarray, pages like neon bulbs and breaking hearts, cracked glow stick dripping from your heaving mouth. You: a parabolic curve crying at a convenience store. You: a surgeon with your own hands in your chest, flatlining to blaring white noise. It’s an excavation, it’s a carving suite with no music and you playing every part. Grab your shovel; dare yourself, darling, because inside the world, a gun. Inside the box, your love—a bullet.
 

 
the jagged edge

broken glass is very beautiful
in the light.
blood splatter
from the wound in your foot
cannot diminish that. pain
rarely eclipses a keen appreciation for beauty.

perhaps the pain adds something.
wash of red, to reflect
sea glass light.
perhaps I’m being hopeful.

is it wrong to want
our jagged edges to fit snugly
against each other’s—as if
inviting a wolf into your bed
has ever ended positively. as if
these teeth, too, can be loved.

broken sheets of plaster warp, smear,
will never match up again. soft edges crumble
to dust and ache. but the sun
will peer down;
clouds will stretch out watery fingers
to caress a space
waiting to be filled
with elms and summer laughter.
even in darkness,
that hungriest of friends, worms are tending
the edges, finding simple treasures
in a house gone soil.

the shards of me will never match
exactly right with yours—they are from
altogether different ceramics, splattered
with spit of different wounds.
but we could grow to fit. but we could
bring out the sun, and phone the birds,
invite the rain and darkness out for coffees—
something warm, and right, could grow here.

our elm is a skinny sapling over top
of older wastes, but it is green.
we bend in the breeze.
Impressions

You sit atop a haystack
in fall,
pointing out the blushing tree line
to me.
Shadows drip from your
shoulder blades. I want
to lick them
more than I want to climb
the trees—though clearly,
we have differing
priorities.

You cry once, for the sun
hidden behind the clouds
in the depths
of winter. Your eyes,
once sugared with tears, with memories
of tears,
are empty as cold teacups abandoned
in a rainy café
when you make your sister
weep. 

You have not made me cry
yet, though I’m sure,
given time, you will. I’ll let you.
Here is how it will happen:
you, in a tree atop
your shadows, and me below,
unable to climb
after you.
 
Epistle

I demand you love me like a train wreck.
Like something smoldering in Celsius, something
you just can’t rip your eyes away from.
Love me like religion, like a name unspoken
because it would deafen ears, gouge eyes, and
melt tongues on impact.
Like the cherry blossom before the bomb,
the last breath of life, breath of beauty
you’ll ever see, like the curl of grass
after the bomb in the rubble of grassroots So-and-So,
like psalms sung into pressed palms and panting mouths.
Like the gambler loves Las Vegas, craving blackjack
every August, like clockwork or Mecca: Jerusalem in neon signs,
money running red in veins,
in highways and alleyways and blocking his mouth
from breath.
Like your middle name, kept hidden because it’s embarrassing,
because it reminds you of your dad,
because it reminds you of your mom
calling from the kitchen on hazy Sunday evenings with grass stains
on your church slacks,
because it gives people power over you,
because it’s not a part of you, it is you and you are.
You are.
Love me like that.
You need to love me like a farmer loves
the crop, like lawyers love crimes because it’s the only work
keeping their children alive.
You need to love me like cigarettes and God,
because my neurons don’t know
weight without smoke and rumbling absolution.
Love me like an unsolvable equation, like
the fever dream of cold fusion machines
the scientist wakes in a colder sweat from, writing
with felt tips on window panes
fogged in the nighttime.
Love me like the nighttime.
Like weeping when you find the mountains in your belly,
like walking into the river and never ever
walking out.
Love me like the lie you believe to sleep at night,
like tears on your pillow, bruised lakes
and blackened vistas. Like scratches
on a cement wall and leather notebooks with page after page after page of
my name, only my name, my name and nothing else but me, me, me.
Love me like that, like all of that,
like a world without me is intangible,
explosive, fallow, is everything you can’t make sense of,
like a knife to my wrist is a gunshot to your chest,
like the choker’s clasp at your neck and
a screaming ambulance with
your entire family inside, saying You Are the Sun,
you are gravity and history and the theory of everything.
Open up and swallow this and
love me like this, because
then you might come close to the stethoscope,
because you’ll understand what’s jumping in my veins and
horse-kicking my ribcage until it’s stamped with your
purple thumbprints. This is all I have to give, baby, it’s it,
loving you like train wrecks, like cars kissing fast and reckless, like velocity,
like God and all His children in a Mercedes in the springtime—
so I need you to love me like that. Love me like me,
be fair about it.
Explode with me, prick your knuckles with me and scream,
feel your chest constrict with the hand of God or the words of elegant hypotheses.
Don’t meet me halfway, run all the way,
to home and to me and to burning nights of bad potatoes and heaving lungs
trying to drown us in dreams of helium. Love me like bastards, like
pillows and window dressings
and hidden knives under our bed,
like snowships in the night.
Hold my hair, please. Love,
tell me you do. Tell me it’s all right.
 
separate from the brain

words hate poems
the way tissues hate hands

forced in regiment, newspaper bobby pins
stuck sideways in keyholes
prying open sky to see stars:
no stars here. only dictionaries. try tomorrow.
(that’s an impossible thing)

spongy forgetting of hot drinks
until they freeze, shiver
that’s a word!
unless it’s carved in skin—then it’s a scar
phloem, bark, skin, pulp: everything’s
pages. you’ve been diagnosed with ink fever.
terminal.

i watched an angel light a cigarette
molting hand alternating between
nicotine, turpentine, nicotine cerulean
   splatters against legs. what a flammable masterpiece. true creation.
	in a word.
orange paint spilled when
god slammed in
looking for his best argyle socks
(even gods comb hair. sometimes. why can’t i?)
cold paint crawls down
lounges on stemmy trees
paint—matchsticks—same thing.


in winter
i pull the fire alarm to make friends
with wishbones and dust frogs
taxidermied friendship belts
keep our hands warm. cold times. coal hands.

what’s it like to be a possible thing?
people only ever watch me like a stoplight
blank behind glass.

the angel told me wait, or—the dictionary did.
verb:
open up, please.
we are not possible things.
 
forest, in time

quiet




hush




trees live here
in inbetween space between

bleeding touched leaf                                                                               	        eyeless oracle root
         (even moles remember photosynthesis
        stolen, burrowed deep in greymatter soil)

tiny nuclear tubules leak		organic 		waste

oh. they know you.
they hear your marble feet!

((picked up from gutter once
dusted off, cut to fit,
dragged behind like leatherteethleather))…


in inbetween space between

orangey butterfly larynx                                    paper cocoon shins
(flew away			   …                              hollow now.)
there is something like the Body, though
mulch spills wet from openthroat
and whipple saplings cripple thighs,
eat feet

It Is Dark.          ever                              forest                 		forever

in inbetween space between

melted wax of burning ears lives the moon
speaks your brain. gentle thunder:
shh.
quiet.
know you 	    you know.
says:
hush
there’s no one here but                                                                     			 ((us))



Fences

You had an all-night Cadillac, a boat that’s only sexy when you consider the figure, vomiting along in total darkness, nuclear curtains pulled over the not-eaten stars—whole, healthy darkness, no cuts from headlights in the heaving, no lighthouse birth pangs squeezing up electric novas. You wear sunglasses, laugh, say, I could fit a body in this car, but I didn’t know you’d meant mine, back cracked and veins bleeding dead nebula from the corner of my mouth. I didn’t mean to offend you. I didn’t mean you’re a rotten apple, exactly, I just meant I like your body better when it bruises against my collarbones, broken flagpoles falling against your foreign country.

If the world is separated into spheres, then yours is a red welt. An X on your back making my signature, or your father’s, or the puncture point. You drown your brain in bowls of blue lightning because the moon’s up and the stars are dark with everything cutting up the insides of your throat. You meaning us, meaning everything.

Just open the trunk, baby, I’m banging on the door with your tongue rolling in my mouth and
I promise I don’t want you back. I just want my jacket, I left it in the backseat of your car, right next to your book of domesticated darkness, right next to my knife’s clammy hands and rashy pulse; your parents aren’t home, so can I grab it, quick, before someone sees?

These walls holding us up are flimsy, burnable concepts, bars like musical ribs against my palms, my cheek. Cool as day. Your father will be angry if we smash this boat, so I lace our fingers like so and yank, hard. You laugh, and my pulse is hammering in the trunk, rubbing this way and that against paper skin: a rash, a rash in the shape of the coroner’s camera, in the shape of blue lightning without ground, without bent aluminum framework. Your tongue presses my throat, takes a red picture. Red looks so fetching against white polyester, against my jacket, my face. In the spray, the ocean, the road. Your name in fences around the drop.










